---
layout: post
title: Learning from CS paper 2
date: 2018-05-25
category: exam
---

## Comparing complexities

- Explain algorithm(s) if necessary.
- Define the complexities mentioned.
- Explain each complexity in the context of the algorithm(s).
- Complexity denotes the *order* with which space/time grows.

- Compare the complexities.
- Some algorithms may have the *same complexities* but that doesn't mean they'll take the same time on the same data set (e.g. insertion sort performs better than bubble).
- Explain what *causes* the complexities for each algorithm (e.g. nested loops causes \\( O(n^2) \\).


## Applying concurrent programming to a system, and discussing its benefits

- Define concurrency:
    - Processes can take place *simultaneously*.
    - Each process is a called a thread.
    - One may need to start before another finishes.

- Discuss how concurrency can be applied to the system:
    - Talk about the ability to perform multiple operations at the same time *in the context of the given system*.
    - Downsides are usually that *locking* needs to be implemented and that concurrency must be programmed in specifically.

- Talk about how concurrency would improve the system.
- Not all of the process is paralleliseable.
- Access needs to be limited to ensure that two threads don't interfere with each other.


## How backtracking is used in tree traversal

- When a node has no child (give example if possible), the algorithm goes back to the previous node (example) to check for further nodes to visit (example).


## Syntax for creating a new instance of a class

- nameInstance = new className(arguments)


## Applying abstraction to development

- Define abstraction:
    - Removal of unnecessary elements.
    - Increased chance of creating program successfully.
    - This reduces programming time.

- Give examples of unnecessary elements that could be removed for abstraction.

- Advantages:
    - Reduces complexity.
    - Requires less computational power.
    - Focuses on core aspects.

- Disadvantages:
    - Too much can detract from the appeal of the program.
