---
layout: post
title: Learning from computer science paper 1, 2017
date: 2018-05-06
categories: exam "computer science"
---

## Exam definition of RAM

Short term, *volatile* storage for *in-use* applications.

---

## Exam definition of a firewall

Software/hardware to filter traffic to and from applications.

---

## Exam definition of a linked list

1. An abstract data structure.
2. Contains nodes, where each node contains its actual data and a pointer to the next node.

Remember, if asked about amending a list, any new node to be created have the necessary data placed into the *next free* node.

---

## Hash tables vs. linked lists

1. Linked list requires *every* node to be checked.
2. Making it longer to search than a hash table.
3. Hash table allows direct access to the location of the record.
4. And therefore will not take longer to query as more records are added.

---

## Exam definition of a hash

- Result generated by applying a hashing algorithm to a value.
- Hash functions are one way.

---

## Difference between HTML ID attributes and class attributes

1. A class can be used *multiple* times.
2. IDs are unique to *single* objects.

---

## Advantages of pre-built libraries

1. Devs don't need to make their own, saving time.
2. Pre-tested.
3. Can be in a different language.
4. Draws on the expertise of others.

---

## Updating a record

``` sql
UPDATE table
SET col1 = val1, col2 = val2, ...
WHERE colx = val
```

---

## AI and jobs

- AI is the study of making computers act intelligently through neural networks.
- Computers are well-suited to do certain jobs.
- Jobs will shift to be more technical.
- AI may never be that good.
- People will have jobs designing and testing AI.
- Some jobs require human decision making and moral decisions.
- Human workers may be emotionally biased and unethical for certain jobs.
- Low-skilled jobs will be taken where replacements aren't difficult to design (repetitive, menial jobs).
- May increase redundancy and homelessness for people who can't afford to train for the changing job market.
- Robots and manual labour.
