---
layout: post
title: Learning from physics paper 2, 2016
---

## Potential divider circuits and proportions


## Conductors and semi-conductors with increasing temperature

- Conductor: R *rises* due to increase in *electron collisions*.
- Semi-conductor: R *falls* due to increase in *free electrons*.


## Kirchhoff's second law

- Sum of emfs into a circuit is equal to the sum of p.d.s out of the circuit.
- Statement regarding the *conservation of energy* (per unit charge in this case).


## Terminal potential difference

- Energy *to be* transferred from electrical to other forms
- per unit charge.


## Internal resistance

- The supply acts as if it has its own resistance, causing some energy to be transferred into *thermal energy*.


## Why a fixed resistor is included in a circuit with a variable resistor

- It's for safety, so the supply is not shorted by high current.


## Similarity and difference between emission and absorption spectrum

- Lines appear at the same positions.
- Absorption shows black lines, emission shows coloured lines.


## Evidence for believing that electron sometimes behave like waves

- Can be diffracted through a thin sheet of graphite
- producing rings/pattern.


## EM waves acting like particles

- One-to-one interaction between photon and electron released from metal.
- Shown in photoelectric effect.
- Only photons with energies greater than the work function cause emission.
- Number of electrons released depends on light intensity.
- Wave model does not explain threshold frequency.
