---
layout: post
title: Learning from physics paper 1, 2017
date: 2018-05-09
categories: exam, physics
---

## Why measured absolute zero values might differ

1. State difference between your value and theirs, and how that changed the graph.
2. Temperature of gas lagged behind water temperature, keeping high pressure at a lower measured temperature.
3. Stir the water and wait for equilibrium to fix this difference.

---

## When using graphs to explain

- Always state the type of curve/what's happening with the gradient, and why this backs it up.

---

## For SHM

- *Air resistance* dampens the oscillations, *not weight*.
- Change in length of string doesn't change time period.

---

## Pendulum practical

1. Clamp in the string.
2. Use stopwatch to measure T.
3. Measure T across multiple oscillations for accuracy.
4. Use a ruler to measure length of string (from fixed pt to centre of bob).
5. Vary L and T.
6. Say something relevant to the question (e.g. if it wants small amplitude, state that you'll use small angles).
7. Start/stop the clock at the centre of the oscillation.
8. Plot a graph of x and y.
9. Talk about gradient and what it'll be.

---

## Changing the width between emission lines

- Use a finer diffraction grating for larger width.
- Use a larger distance from grating to screen for larger width.

---

## Explaining how a spectrum of a galaxy *further* away will appear

1. Less intense.
2. Galaxy moving faster, so the wavelength is *longer*.
3. There's a periodic shift of \\( \lambda \\) due to the orbit.

---

## Internal energy while changing state

1. Temperature is constant.
2. So KE of molecules *does not* increase.
3. Potential energy greatly increases, because molecules grow further apart.
4. Internal energy increases overall.
